About EppaBasicista
====================
EppaBasic is a web browser based programming language especially designed for
educational use. Our work consists of designing the language and writing a
compiler, a runtime and an editor for it. The whole IDE (Integrated Development
Environment) has been written in JavaScript which means it works on all modern
browsers without installation of additional plugins. Compiler compiles
EppaBasic code into asm.js code for fast execution.

One of the core aspects of the language's design is that creating graphical
application should be easy. Just an empty program opens a window and simple
shapes can be drawn using a single command. There are commands for drawing for
example rectangles, circles and triangles. This instant graphical feedback
ensures learning programming stays interesting.

Language is focused on game creation. This can be a great incentive to learn
programming for young students. Compilation is nearly instantaneous which means
fast iteration times. Syntax errors in code are shown immediately to the user as
he's writing the code. This means finding and fixing errors is fast which
further boosts learning process.

Web browser based approach was chosen because it removes entirely the cumbersome
process of installing the development environment. Installing development
environment can be hard especially for beginners. With EppaBasic, you can just
navigate to a web page. This and the built-in manual in the editor make it easy
to get started. EppaBasic syntax is similar with other programming languages
which makes it easy to later move to languages that can be used on a
professional career.

Developers
----------
EppaBasic is developed by Henrik Lievonen (henrik.lievonen@eppabasic.fi) and
Sami Kalliom√§ki (sami.kalliomaki@eppabasic.fi).
